Cockpit 240 (#388)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2021-03-17-cockpit-240.md

---
title: Cockpit 240
author: mvo
date: 2021-03-17
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-240
category: release
summary: Cockpit with various improvements
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).  We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit version 240.

## New localization: Norwegian Bokmål

Cockpit is now also available in Norwegian Bokmål localization. Thank
you Stein-Aksel Basma for this contribution!  Cockpit is being
translated in [Weblate](https://translate.fedoraproject.org/projects/cockpit/master/)
where anyone can help to improve Cockpit.

## Performance metrics: Journal integration

For every event on metrics page relevant journal logs are provided to
help identify why the event has happened.

![Journal entries for an event](/images/metrics-journal.png)

## Machines: support authentication against cloud images

> Distro cloud images have locked login accounts by default. The user
> can now specify the root and user account login credentials when
> creating VMs based on cloud images.

Reviewer: First pass:

```suggestion
Linux distribution cloud images use locked login accounts by default. Cockpit supports creating virtual machines based on cloud images using these credentials.
```

Second pass:

```suggestion
Cockpit can now create virtual machines based on cloud images using login credentials.
```

Or, perhaps:

```suggestion
Cockpit now supports login credentials when creating virtual machines from cloud images.
```

Or if "distro" matters:

```suggestion
Cockpit now supports login credentials when creating virtual machines from Linux distribution cloud images.
```

Author: I have used @martinpitt's version.

![Cloud image account initialization](/images/cloud-init.png)

### Try it out

Cockpit 240 is available now:

 * [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)

>  * [Cockpit Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/230)

Reviewer 2: 240 :)

Author: Damn.

---
title: Cockpit 240
author: mvo
date: 2021-03-17
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-240
category: release
summary: Cockpit with various improvements
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).  We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit version 240.

## New localization: Norwegian Bokmål

Cockpit is now also available in Norwegian Bokmål localization. Thank
you Stein-Aksel Basma for this contribution!  Cockpit is being

> translated in [Weblate](https://translate.fedoraproject.org/projects/cockpit/master/)

Author: Done.

where anyone can help to improve Cockpit.

## Performance metrics: Journal integration

For every event on metrics page relevant journal logs are provided to

> help identify why the event has happened.

Author: I'll take the second suggestion.

> help identify why some event has happened.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
help identify why the event has happened.
```

> ![Journal entries for a spike](/images/metrics-journal.png)

Reviewer 3: Without looking at the image, it's not at all clear what "for a spike" means.

Author: Yes, should be "for an event", to refer back to the text.

## Machines: support authentication against cloud images

Distro cloud images have locked login accounts by default. The user
can now specify the root and user account login credentials when
creating VMs based on cloud images. The cloud image itself will be

> used as the backing store for the VM's disk.

Reviewer 3: The last sentence implies that this feature is much larger than the summary implies.

Which way is it?  We only added authentication for existing cloud-image-as-backing-store VMs, or we added the feature entirely?

Reviewer 4: Why does it imply that the feature is larger :)? It totally is but I just want to see how you figured it out.

Cloud images can be customized through cloud init in much more deep way than just login credentials (ssh keys, network configuration, adding packages is some of them)

We don't plan to add support for none of these, we will just keep it simple and limited to this feature that I describe here.

Author: I think we can remove the last sentence. It's not relevant to know what a backing store is to use the new feature.

Reviewer 2: As someone who knows cloud images, I find the description a bit confusing. Maybe s/locked/no/ in the first sentence, dropping the redundant "when creating VMs based on cloud images", and pointing out the vehicle:

| The user can now specify the root and user account login credentials, which will be passed to [cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/).

This is concise, not too technical, and hints at what's going on for people who actually use cloud images.

Author: Done.

![Cloud image account initialization](/images/cloud-init.png)

### Try it out

Cockpit 240 is available now:

 * [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)
 * [Cockpit Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/230)

>  * [Cockpit Fedora 33](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-XXX)

Reviewer 3: Needs real urls, of course.

Author: Added.
